---
date: 2021-03-18T20:19
---
# John McCarthy
Hayes, Patrick J.; Morgenstern, Leora (2007). "On John McCarthy's 80th Birthday, in Honor of his Contributions". AI Magazine. Association for the Advancement of Artificial Intelligence. 28 (4): 93–102. Retrieved November 24, 2010.

- UG at caltech, some grad school
    - After McCarthy received his Bachelor of Science from Caltech, he began his graduate studies there. For McCarthy, the intellectual ferment at the time was palpable. The excitement generated by the use of early computers to decode enemy messages—and thus help win World War II—was still running high
    #1950s
    - attended **Hixon** Symposium on Cerebral Mechanisms in Behavior (Jeffress 1951) [[hixon]]
    --> his chief interests related to the development of machines that scould think like people. 
- established Stanford AI Lab
    - Alumni of the original SAIL played a major role in many Silicon Valley firms, becoming founders of now-large firms such as Cisco Systems and Sun Microsystems as well as smaller companies such as Vicarm Inc. (acquired by Unimation), Foonly, Elxsi, Imagen, Xidex, Valid Logic Systems, and D.E. Shaw & Co
    - SAIL was reopened in 2004, now in the Gates Computer Science Building, with Sebastian Thrun becoming its new director. SAIL's 21st century mission is to "change the way we understand the world";[9] its researchers contribute to fields such as bioinformatics, cognition, computational geometry, computer vision, decision theory, distributed systems, game theory, general game playing, image processing, information retrieval, knowledge systems, logic, machine learning, multi-agent systems, natural language, neural networks, planning, probabilistic inference, sensor networks, and robotics.[9] The best-known achievement of the new SAIL is the Stanley self-driving car that won the 2005 DARPA Grand Challenge.
    - [AI lab affiliates](https://ai.stanford.edu/ai-affiliates-program/): ``Corporate members provide $200,000 per year of unrestricted support with an expected three-year commitment. These funds will be used to support the research activities of faculty and graduate students as well as the other programs of the affiliates program."

- quote: "He who refuses to do arithmetic is doomed to talk nonsense"
- one of first members of Stanford Department of CS
